### Learning Vue 3 & TypeScript
The latest stack that I've been working with and learning more about is Vue 3,
and TypeScript. The project I'm working on uses the composition API, script setup
syntax, vuetify 3, and Pinia. The work involves migrating an existing application
built with Vue 2 and older supported libraries, like Vue X and vuetify 2. 

#### Vue 3 & TS

At first it was a significant to learn all at once. It's starting to finally come
together and make more sense.

I immediately noticed similarities to Adobe Flex, MXML, and ActionScript 3.0. The
markup and TypeScript mixed together to build components looked and felt very
familiar. The other, and more obvious, comparison is to React. For whatever reason
Vue 3 development looks and feels more like Flex development than React, or at
least to me, and in the experiences I've had with all three.

Vue 3, and TypeScript development doesn't really feel like traditional web 
development though. It doesn't strike me the same as older web development
frameworks and stacks, such as Backbone and Ember. I imagine some of that is 
related to TypeScript.

I've written a small amount of TypeScript in the past, but nothing too complex,
and not for any great length of time. I have more experience writing straight up
ECMAScript going all the way back to 1997. JavaScript was actually one of the first
programming languages I ever learned. That was back before it was really even taken
seriously by the more hardcore Java, Perl and C developers of the late 90s. 

From those days of adding JavaScript scrollers to my Geocities website, until now, 
and with Vue 3 and TypeScript feel like an eternity. It even feels like two separate
worlds, or Universes. The differences really are that significant.

#### vuetify 3
Some parts of vuetify are awesome, and others have me questioning how much more I 
want to continue working with it outside my current project. 

The main problem 
that I have is that there isn't enough effort going into the project. I hate to be
negative, seriously, but with the limited resources that are involved with the 
project I'm not sure how they're going to stay on top of defects and introducing 
new features. 

Maybe the community will begin making more contributions to the 
project and my concerns will be completely invalidated. The creator has written
about his lack of time to work on the project. I totally understand that it's
very difficult to take a risk and dedicate all of your time and energy to a project
like that. 

The first time I left my long term role as a developer to start freelancing
it was extremely scary. Not having that kind of security is sketchy. I believe the
creator of vuetify also has children, so that's even more harrowing. 

It's tough to
say what will happen exactly with vuetify. I've seen more frameworks, libraries and
technologies come and go than I can legitimately even remember at this point. So
I guess, like with most things, I'll just wait, and watch and see how it all plays 
out. 

I did choose vuetify 3 for this personal website. Mostly because I already know
it, and also to learn more about it for the project I'm working on at work. I took
a few minutes recently to explore Quasar and was instantly sold, until I went to add
it to a project. It seemed too involved and complicated, just to add it to a new
project. That's never a good sign. Maybe I'll revisit it later. 

For now I'm using
vuetify and hoping for the best. It has been around for quite a while, so maybe I'm
freaking out for nothing. It wouldn't be the first time.

#### Pinia
Who put the store in my model? Well, pinia did. If that makes sense then you've
probably also worked with more traditional MVC frameworks. I often call the pinia
store a model, and hope I'm not driving anyone I work with crazy. I've worked with
so many MVC frameworks that even when I'm working with something referred to as a 
store my brain automagically converts it to model and I'm saying the one word and
meaning the other. I think that's improving with time. It's just an adjustment.

#### Naming rant
On that note, why do we do this as developers? Why are we constantly renaming 
everything? Is it really so important? I'm a writer, so I certainly understand the
power and meaning behind words. It feels like maybe we get a little carried away
though in our development world. I can't even count the number of times I've seen
the same thing, more or less, "reinvented" by some developer and then a new name
is attached to it. /end rant

#### Framework & library warning
Sorry, that was a bit of a tangent. It's something that's been on my mind for years
though, so I guess now was the time to write it down. Tangent aside, pinia is nice 
and I have enjoyed working with it. The concerns I have for vuetify don't extend
into pinia. Some of the same people who work on Vue also work on pinia. Vue has
been around long enough, and is used by enough large companies that I don't worry
about it too much. Why do I worry about these things at all? Funny you should ask.
Let me tell you a story.

Flex and AS3 were the best thing since sliced web dev bread at one time. I remember
at one point I was in the San Diego airport waiting for a flight to another 
consulting gig. I overheard a group of people talking about Flex. It took a second
for it all to register. At that time Flex was a very hot topic. I probably had 
twenty recruiters a day contacting me. I was talking about Flex so much that it 
didn't occur to me that right there in the middle of the airport were a group of
people chatting away about it. Maybe it's more common place to hear someone out
in public talking about web development, but at that time it still wasn't all that
common. Not in San Diego anyway. The point is, despite the popularity of that
framework and those technologies, they are virtually unheard of in today's dev
world. So, what's hot today, could really be gone tomorrow. Always remember that,
and remember it well when choosing new frameworks to specialize in, use and learn.

#### IntelliJ
Another thing I've had the pleasure of working with every day is the IntelliJ IDE.
This is not the first time I've used IntelliJ, but it's been a number of years 
since I did work with it. It's nice, and I mean really nice. There are of course
the hiccups and weird bugs, but that's just about every piece of software ever
created really. 

The refactoring tooling is even better than I remember. The themes are beautiful, 
the integration with Git is very nice. IntelliJ has a pretty good Problems panel
that helps guide you in fixing errors in your code. That part does have a few bugs
and you have to do what I refer to as the Invalidate & Restart Shuffle, sometimes
several times throughout the day even. Even with its small bugs and problems it's
a wonderful IDE. It can help to speed up and even simplify the development process.
I used IntelliJ for Java development mostly in the past. I've been using it for
Vue 3/TypeScript every day for a while now and give it two thumbs up. There are
some quick keys that are crucial to memorize that also speed up development.

#### Closing
Well, I think that's about enough for this post. This was pretty fun. It's been a 
number of years since I wrote a tech blog. I've done quite a bit of writing, just
not in a personal, tech centric blog like this. Maybe I'll make today my blog day.
It's Sunday morning, I just woke up about an hour ago. I'm sitting here drinking 
the first coffee of the day. Maybe this is my church. Writing about my experiences
working in an industry for over twenty years. You see a lot during that time. I
know I've seen a lot. A lot of things people probably wouldn't even believe. I'll
save some of those stories for some other posts. Thanks for stopping by and reading.
I hope you're doing well. Take it easy, and like I always say, take care of yourself
and your mental health.